hi I'm Steve Hut manager of R&D at 18
sound in reggio emilia italy today we're
going to talk about loudspeakers as
bandpass devices we'll start with just
drawing a line graph on our whiteboard
here that represents frequency that we
measured in hertz so loudspeakers we
know can produce a range of route of
frequencies within a reasonable
tolerance at the low end they have a
high-pass characteristic and at their
high end a low-pass characteristic later
we're gonna find out why when we get
inside not in this video but in one of
our next ones right now we're going to
talk about some phrases we use to
describe loudspeakers or systems and try
to put it on the board what is it when
we talk about a subwoofer to start a
subwoofer well produce range of
frequencies in the zone of 30 Hertz
through to 80 Hertz is a very typical
expectation for subwoofers then we have
our woofers usually in the 50 Hertz
range and maybe out to a kilohertz
sometimes less or more and then there's
our mid-range that usually it's gonna
play from 100 Hertz 200 Hertz and out to
3 or 4 kilohertz and sometimes less and
our high frequency compression drivers
that are most often used from around the
kilohertz or a little higher sometimes
even a bit lower and they'll play to 16
or 18 or 20 kilohertz depending on so
let's just have a look at the units on
the table here this is a representation
of some of the models that 18 sound
manufacturer starting down here at the
big guys we've got a 21 inch and an 18
inch sub woofer that are typically used
in systems to play from 30 to 80 Hertz
then for a woofer range you got a 15 12
you might even use the 10 in the woofer
range so we're going to play from 50 or
60 and out to capability of thousand
1,200 Hertz and therefore a mid-range
here's an example of an 8 inch and a 6
inch that's playing in the 100 and 200
Hertz range and out to 2 or 3 K
sometimes even higher and then finally
for a compression driver range we have a
series of different compression drivers
that are always attached to horns so
there it is bandwidth devices various
sizes and when we come back in our next
videos we'll talk about what is it
that's on the spec sheet what do these
numbers mean how do they relate to
bandwidth and we'll get inside that some
of the parameters and the mechanics that
drive the parameters thanks for watching
you